= acts_as_solr Rails plugin

This plugin adds full text search capabilities and many other nifty features from Apache's Solr[http://lucene.apache.org/solr/] to any Rails model.
It was based on the first draft by Erik Hatcher.

== Current Release

There is no numbered release yet, but the master branch is always considered stable.

== Support

Check the project website[http://mattmatt.github.com/acts_as_solr] or stop by the Google Group[http://groups.google.com/group/acts_as_solr]. Send bug reports through GitHub[http://github.com/mattmatt/acts_as_solr/issues].

== Changes

Please refer to the CHANGELOG[http://github.com/mattmatt/acts_as_solr/blob/master/CHANGE_LOG]

== Installation

For Rails >= 2.1:

     script/plugin install git://github.com/mattmatt/acts_as_solr.git

For Rails < 2.1:

     cd vendor/plugins
     git clone git://github.com/mattmatt/acts_as_solr.git
     rm -rf acts_as_solr/.git

Make sure you copy vendor/plugins/acts_as_solr/config/solr.yml to your Rails
application's config directory, when you install via git clone.

Here is an example solr.yml configuration:

     # Config file for the acts_as_solr plugin.
     #
     # If you change the host or port number here, make sure you update
     # them in your Solr config file

     development:
       url: http://127.0.0.1:8982/solr

     production:
       url: http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr
       jvm_options: -server -d64 -Xmx1024M -Xms64M

     test:
       url: http://127.0.0.1:8981/solr


== Requirements

* Java Runtime Environment(JRE) 1.5 aka 5.0 [http://www.java.com/en/download/index.jsp](http://www.java.com/en/download/index.jsp)
* If you have libxml-ruby installed, make sure it's at least version 0.7

== Configuration

If you are using acts_as_solr as a Rails plugin, everything is configured to work out of the box. You can use `rake solr:start` and `rake solr:stop`
to start and stop the Solr web server (an embedded Jetty). If the default JVM options aren't suitable for
your environment, you can configure them in solr.yml with the option `jvm_options`. There is a default
set for the production environment to have some more memory available for the JVM than the defaults, but
feel free to change them to your liking.

If you are using acts_as_solr as a gem, create a file named lib/tasks/acts_as_solr.rake:

     require "acts_as_solr/tasks"


== Basic Usage

# Just include the line below to any of your ActiveRecord models:
  acts_as_solr

# Or if you want, you can specify only the fields that should be indexed:
  acts_as_solr :fields => [:name, :author]

# Then to find instances of your model, just do:
  Model.find_by_solr(query) #query is a string representing your query

# Please see ActsAsSolr::ActsMethods for a complete info

== acts_as_solr in your tests

To test code that uses acts_as_solr you must start a Solr server for the test environment. You can do that with 

    rake solr:start RAILS_ENV=test

However, if you would like to mock out Solr calls so that a Solr server is not needed (and your tests will run much faster), just add this to your `test_helper.rb` or similar:

    class ActsAsSolr::Post
      def self.execute(request)
        true
      end
    end

(via[http://www.subelsky.com/2007/10/actsassolr-capistranhttpwwwbloggercomim.html#c1646308013209805416])

== Authors

Erik Hatcher: First draft
Thiago Jackiw: Previous developer
Luke Francl: Current developer
Mathias Meyer: Current developer

== Release Information

Released under the MIT license.